using
racist or speciesist rhetoric in order
to
put guilt on people for something their
ancestors did or that society has done
is just it's just so wrong
you are about to hear one vegan youtuber
being quoted presenting the argument
that if you merely stop eating meat
yourself
that's not going to change anything
that's not going to save the world
that's not going to save the animals
you have to do more than just passively
remove yourself
from the social system you're morally
opposed to
if you want to change it nothing
surprising about that
really kind of a self-evident truth in
most circumstances right
then you're going to hear a counter
argument from a natural vegan
that that's racist as beneficiaries of
10 000 plus years of human supremacy
and of continuing violence against
animals both in captivity and the wild
we are all in this position we are
beneficiaries of a violent conspiracy
our homes our gadgets our streets and
yes even our vegan food
are products of violence against animals
and simply attempting to remove
ourselves when we continue to benefit
from the system of violence
falls far short of our moral duty so yes
participation and violence is shameful
and unethical
but so too is inaction in the face of
violence
so too is veganism without action this
is essentially the same racist argument
that
extremist social justice advocates make
that like all white people have to be
actively vocal as anti-racist activists
otherwise they're racist
and bad people we inherit the sins of
our fathers and we have to atone we have
racial guilt
by vice of our skin color or our
heritage demanding anti-racist activism
from white people to like atone for the
genetic sin of whiteness pretty racist
demanding animal rights activism from
people
due to the genetic sin of being human
pretty speciesist nothing is going to
change
unless you change it nothing is going to
unless you get uncomfortable
and actively take risks actively make
sacrifices
to change the world there's nothing
racist
there's nothing racist whatsoever
in recognizing the enormity
of that challenge let's suppose the year
is 1981 and you're living in a communist
country
could be russia could be china could be
a member of the
eastern bloc you're living in a
communist system
and you just take up the attitude that
hey you personally
are morally opposed to communism you
think it's a bad political system
you're gonna have a boycott or you're
gonna say well well you know
i personally refuse
to take a position of authority within
the communist party
where i'm like really benefiting from
this system you know
maybe there are certain uh events you
refuse to go to well
i'm not gonna go to that concert i'm not
gonna stand in the crowd
cheering when the government
has a parade for the military
showing off our nuclear missiles i
personally am not going to
clap and cheer for the communist party
because you know
i just want to i just feel morally
superior to this whole system that
surrounds me
and that in innumerable ways every day i
still benefit from it still paves my
roads it still provides me with
electricity and drinking water i'm still
paying taxes into it
probably you still participate in that
system in a million ways that you have
no control over you have no ability to
refuse
or you have no ability to refuse without
terrible consequences
and you may be called in to be a witness
against one of your fellow citizens that
one of your fellow citizens
has dared to criticize the communist
party and then they call you in and say
now look
we're going to interrogate you and
either you're going to cooperate with us
or you're going to be the one who goes
to jail
instead of your friend you start making
tough choices
but one thing is certain you
personally choosing to boycott the
communist system
is not going to change anything things
won't change
unless you and people like you
actively take risks actively make
sacrifices
and fight to change the system
right and guess what the odds are
you're not going to win the odds are if
you fight
you're going to ruin your own life
you're going to ruin other people's
lives and you're going to die
you're going to die in failure it's very
easy
to tell the history of slavery just in
terms of the successful
slave rebellions just in terms of the
revolutions the uprisings the
political lobbying that actually did
succeed in liberating slaves
do you want to stop to imagine how many
slaves
rose up in rebellion and tried to take
their freedom and
failed and were killed and were tortured
to death
and what if you were a white person
living in a slave society
would you just take the passive attitude
oh well i
personally don't want to own slaves well
i
personally am not going to attend this
event or that event and clap and applaud
i'm not going to go to this ball in a
ballroom where they have slaves serving
drinks because i'm
i'm opposed to that i'm too morally pure
to buy this
particular product this basket that's
hand woven by slaves on a slave camp i'm
going to choose to buy a different
basket that's made by white people
is that is that going to end slavery is
that going to change the system
and recognize the risks you take the
commitment you make
may result in your death and you may die
without achieving your objectives or
without advancing your society in the
slightest way imaginable
towards the abolition of slavery the end
of communism
right whichever example you want to
choose
do you ever hear about this thing the
nazi party
do you ever hear about this in the
history of germany huh
do you think if you were living in nancy
germany it would be a viable strategy
for you or for your society as a whole
to just sit back and do what a natural
vegan says you should do just
passively refuse to buy
refuse to believe in refuse to actively
benefit from
that system when the reality is of
course you do benefit if you you sit
back so that you personally wouldn't go
to a hitler rally you personally
wouldn't go and cheer for
the nazi party as they take over your
country as they rule your country
as they start you know engaging in
eugenics in slaughter
in murder of various gods is it even
enough you just say that you personally
wouldn't join the army to fight for
adolf hitler when your whole society
is in a state of war or do you make the
commitment
to join the resistance to actually fight
against
adolf hitler and again yeah in a sense
right eventually the resistance won
eventually
you know hitler was defeated in many
places around the world eventually
of course you know slavery was defeated
but within
your lifetime for you and your circle of
friends or colleagues right
you may fight you may lose you may die
and you may die not knowing that victory
was later to come
you may die with all your efforts being
in vain
having joined the resistance it takes
real commitment
it takes real self-sacrifice even in a
sense
takes some heroism and it's it's bizarre
to me that all these things are
unthinkable
to a natural vegan as she so cynically
and so stupidly tries to construe this
argument
as inherently racist
now what i'm about to do is in some ways
the most important part of this video of
all
and that is to argue against my own
position and thus to feel out
the limits of its validity a natural
vegan
never does this incredibly few youtubers
do it
you should cultivate it as a habit of
mind not just in terms of public oratory
but in terms of your own thinking
because the odds are no matter how valid
and morally self-righteous your position
may seem like at this moment
of this video it may seem like oh boy
this guy in the yellow shirt
he's got a water tight argument no holes
in it right gee there's a difference
between just passively boycotting
something especially when it's a social
system that
you actually contribute to and benefit
from every day like you're still paying
your taxes to the communist party
or you're still you know you're still
working in a factory that produces the
guns that adolf hitler's army is using
even if you refuse to be a member of the
nazi party refuse to march the army
you're part of that social system in the
middle of the war in a war economy
gee okay that's a point you can't just
have a boycott and expect a system to
change you can't even live
in a muslim majority country like
saudi arabia or egypt and just say that
you personally are going to be an
atheist well i personally
i'm going to stop going to the temple
i'm going to stop going to church i'm
going to stop going to the mosque
i personally am going to boycott
religion and then expect society to
change
no saudi arabia is not going to change
until you and people like you
start taking risks start doing something
actively to change it it can't come
about for this past
boycott okay so if i i can hear put down
the microphone and just
grandstand about how intellectually
morally spirit i am
to a natural vegan okay but there are
limits to this argument i've presented
to you
i'm aware not of its invalidity but of
its
limited validity and i can argue against
my own point you know what it's really
dangerous
to present these things as if they're
self-evident
universally valid truths okay
prostitution
it's not enough for you personally
to just walk past prostitutes on the
street and not have sex with them
right nothing is going to change unless
you change it
nothing is going to change unless you
become an activist
against and opposed to your society or
maybe just your neighborhood
being dominated by prostitution you see
how this starts to become dangerous
you see the difficulty pornography
it's not enough for you personally to be
morally opposed to pornography
to refuse to participate in it and then
to allow others to participate and be
part of a say
abortion it's not enough for you
personally to choose
not to have abortions do you see where
this can lead
do you see the problem and my point here
isn't
that uh everyone should be pro-abortion
or everyone should be anti-abortion or
everyone should be pro-prostitution or
everyone should be anti-prostitution
what we get into is the question of
democracy right
if you have a moral objection
to prostitution if you have a moral
objection
to pornography or abortion
right do you have the option
of trying to pursue social change you
desire
you imagine through democratic means
democratic means doesn't just doesn't
narrowly focus on
or only include going to city hall going
to parliament
standing up giving a deposition right
one of the most
democratic ways to pursue cultural
change of all
is through the arts because of course if
you like today if we go to parliament
we stand up and make a proposal to force
the world to become vegan
make a pass a law making cheese illegal
or you'll be laughed out of parliament
you won't even get one you know vote
supporting you
we engage in filmmaking we publish
children's story books
we make cartoons like we start to change
the culture start to raise awareness
of the issue and it's implications right
and maybe in the passage of a century it
doesn't seem so ridiculous anymore
to actually make cheese illegal right
there was a time when just the
suggestion
that male circumcision be made illegal
was not merely laughable not merely
scoff worthy
but was presumed to be racist it was
presumed that
the only reason anyone would be opposed
to
circumcision cutting off part of an
infant baby's
penis the only reason anyone could be
opposed to this
would be racism anti-semitism
islamophobia right
and within my lifetime i've seen step by
step people get made aware no no
no as a matter of scientific fact
as a matter of ethics this is a real
issue
now can you can you pursue
this kind of social change
democratically
can you do it even culturally as i say
in north korea right now you can't
right in north korea there's no
democracy there's no freedom of speech
there's no way a filmmaker
in north korea can produce an expose or
critique of his society right
in saudi arabia right now
can you do it democratically even in
egypt even in some of the so-called
moderate
muslim countries you'd be amazed when it
comes to these when it comes to issues
that really matter
just how little freedom you've got just
how little democracy there is
where it counts so what is the line we
draw
between becoming a partisan fighting
against the nazis
in germany risking your life risking
everything
to oppose mao zedong lenin
or stalin in a situation of outright
dictatorship
the means and ways we have at our
disposal
now as vegans so no being a vegan animal
rights activist is not the moral
baseline
um being vegan is not the moral baseline
either like we can
we can all always do better and just as
an aside
again like maybe we can stop denigrating
vegetarians
we're all on this road together we're
all making mistakes we're all moral
monsters
so you know let's let's be nice reach
out a hand instead of
a stick not everyone is a monster
not everyone in germany was a nazi
not everyone in germany was a
collaborator
and not everyone just passively
participated in the nazi social system
while complaining amongst friends that
they thought it was
immoral and evil and wrong and you know
in these minor ways refusing to attend
rallies
refusing to cheer maybe personally
commenting that they felt minecamp was a
terrible book or something
no we're not all monsters
we're not all the same we're not all
equal
we make ourselves extraordinary
we make ourselves heroic precisely by
taking those steps
by taking those risks by making those
commitments
to actively make the world a better
place not just
passively sneer at the moral inferiority
of our fellow human beings who continue
to support the nazi party or continue to
support joseph stalin
just because it's convenient for them or
the people
who continue to eat bacon
chicken eggs cheese
in our society today
maybe we can we can practice